---
title:  "New year, new summer!"
date:   2019-05-15
categories: [Work]
tags: [Work]
---

The exams just ended one day back and it is good to be back home. While I am sure that for the next week or two I will still be troubled with nightmares about how I have an exam the next day and I have nothing prepared, or that I slept through the exam, etc., I am excited about the busy summer I am going to have. Why am I looking forward to being busy, you might ask. Well, because I am going to TIFR!

Going to Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, has been a dream of mine since the first year of my college. I had heard so much about it: the people, the culture, the research and what not. This summer, I finally get a chance to live that dream. I will be working on a summer internship under Prof. Tejinder Pal Singh on torsion gravity. This project is scheduled to begin on May 27, 2019, and end in August. First thing on the *Things to do this summer* list is: work on torsion gravity. We will be working on an original research problem involving torsion gravity and I am looking forward to it. I really hope the experience will be as fun as I am imagining it to be in my mind.

Next, I don't remember if I have revealed this or not, I will be going to Penn State University, University Park Campus, to work under Prof. Bangalore S. Sathyaprakash on *testing nonlinear gravity with gravitational waves*.  So, I will make sure I do my background work before reaching Pennsylvania and begin working on the project formally. By 'background work' I mean getting acquainted with the computational techniques related to gravitational wave detection as well as read up the theory on gravitational radiation. This will involve revising a bit of general relativity which is not a problem as it will help me with the summer project as well. So, the second point on the to-do list is: study about gravitational wave detection methods and the theory of gravitational radiation. I am planning to do the theory part of gravitational radiation using Carroll's book, so I think I will have a good time.
 
Finally, I will be applying for a PhD in Physics this December. Yeah, time has flown by. For the same, I will be required to give the Physics GRE. Scoring well in the Physics GRE is important for me for two reasons. Firstly, I want to be a theoretical physicist. However, the PhD positions that are available for theoretical physicists are less and at a downward trend making the selection process highly selective and very competitive. Thus, to make sure I end up with the professor I want to work under, I want a spotless profile and, right now, Physics GRE seems like the last remaining brick. To perform well in it I will have to prepare well for it. Having searched for the best resource for the test, I have found it to be a book called *Conquering the Physics GRE* by Kahn. So, the third thing on the to-do list: prepare for the Physics GRE.

So, here's the final to-do list for the summer-
1. Work on torsion gravity.
2. Study about gravitational wave detection methods and the theory of gravitational radiation.
3. Prepare for the Physics GRE.

I have learned from the last summer to not have too much on my plate; hoping three things would be manageable. 
